---
title: Analysis Paragraphs
layout: post
category: schoolwork
---
## Mili - Children of the City ##
<iframe width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aHUVqV5CO6w" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

In Mili’s song “Children of the City,” the speaker uses orders known as Prescripts as a symbol to convey that blind following stifles one’s free will and purpose. Immediately, the speaker begins to relay orders that they have heard, such as “sleep for a total of 800 hours per day,” and “only eat, or write, or pull the trigger with your right hand.” These are called Prescripts, orders given to citizens living under The Index, a government style branch that offers protection to the people under it. The Index promises to keep the citizens safe as long as they complete their Prescripts, and the examples given by the speaker help illustrate how confusing and seemingly pointless they can be. The speaker then explains that “by the time you realize, you’ll be restrained to a desk,” explaining that once under the Index’s protection, “you’ll comply, eyes chained to the test.” The Prescripts are a symbol for these restrictions, as their pointless orders consume the lives of those underneath them. Abandoning dreams and wishes, the citizens solely follow the orders given to them by the Index. The speaker, realizing this, is forced to come to terms with, “the fact that other than to expand we had no purpose,” and states that they now, “must be comfortable being who I considered worthless.” Without the freedom that is taken away by the Prescripts, they see their life as pointless. Living only to follow orders given by their higher ups, the speaker discovers that despite the safety they have they’ve become a single cog perpetuating what seems to be a meaningless goal. All in all, the song “Children of the City” by Mili uses Prescripts as a symbol to illustrate that free will and purpose are erased by the act of blind following.

## DECO*27 - Undercover ##
<iframe width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CZn-dx4O4gA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

DECO\*27’s song “Undercover” uses prisoners as symbols to express that emotional influences make it impossible for one to fairly judge others. The speaker describes the plight of ten prisoners who are all being tried for a murder they committed. Their fate will be decided by the prison warden, who must choose if they are innocent or guilty. However, the speaker then notes that, “you get to know them and then tie them with their EGO,” asking the question, “can you really judge them?” While each prisoner represents a murder, each come with their own stories and personalities. The prisoners symbolize the human element that blurs the verdict they should be given. Challenging the warden, the speaker believes that they begin to relate the prisoners and their cases with their personality. This is expanded on when referring to the, “border between ‘Hate’ vs ‘OK’,” which the warden is then asked, “is it really ok to be...deciding with just your EGO?” EGO, which the speaker continues to refer to, is the conscious part of the brain which is considered one’s self. Because of the emotional connection the warden begins to make with the prisoners, their ego begins to get in the way of objective decision making. The clouding that these emotions cause blurs the border between what is unforgivable and what is acceptable. This dilemma escalates once the warden is told that after “a false accusation full of mistakes,” the prisoner “would probably smile and be pleased.” The speaker informs them that falsely acquitting a guilty prisoner would result in bloodshed, showing shadows of the warden themself being killed by them. The stakes are too high for one’s ego to be getting in the way. Overall, the song “Undercover” by DECO\*27 uses prisoners to symbolize that one’s rational judgement is blinded by their emotional influence.

## Shirly Jackson - The Lottery ##

In Shirley Jackson’s short story “The Lottery,” she uses a lottery as a symbol to argue that long standing traditions don’t need to be upheld and instead should be challenged. In the story, the citizens of a town all assemble to hold an annual lottery. At the beginning of the story, when the box that the lottery winners are drawn out of is revealed, it is noted that “...so much of the ritual had been forgotten or discarded.” Immediately it is made clear that the lottery, the focal point of the story, was made so long ago that most of it is foggy and unknown to the townspeople. The imagery of the box depicts an ancient and forgotten tradition that seems unnecessary from an outside point of view. A view that, as seen later, is not shared by the townsfolk. A passing conversation reveals that other towns wish to abandon the lottery, in which a citizen makes the comment, “next thing you know, they’ll be wanting to go back to living in caves.” By equating the discontinuation of the lottery with backwards progress, it is revealed just how important the lottery is to the citizens. This juxtaposes the aforementioned outside view that this lottery has been forgotten, and starts to form the argument that long standing traditions should be challenged. This leads up to the end of the story, in which it is revealed that the winner of the lottery is to be pelted to death with stones. The unlucky winner then cries out, “It isn’t fair, it isn’t right” as the story comes to a close. This asserts the claim made by Jackson by having the victim, or the scapegoat, speaking out against the lottery. By ending the story on someone challenging the lottery, which symbolizes long standing tradition, it implores more to speak out against it. Overall, the usage of the lottery as a symbol assists Jackson in arguing that long standing traditions don’t need to be upheld and instead need to be challenged.
